OBSDOCS-957: Add Technology Preview docs for Loki Exporter to RH Collector (#81212)
openshift/openshift-docs: observability/otel/otel-forwarding-logs.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="otel-forwarding-logs"]
= Forwarding Logs to a LokiStack instance
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: otel-forwarding-logs

> You can deploy and configure the OpenTelemetry Collector to forward logs to a LokiStack instance. You can deploy the OpenTelemetry Collector in the deployment mode by using the specified processors, receivers, and exporters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can deploy and configure the OpenTelemetry Collector to forward logs to a LokiStack instance. You can configure OpenTelemetry Collector for deployment mode by using the specified processors, receivers, and exporters.
```
or something; IDK "deploy in deployment mode" doesn't seem to mean much

Author: Thank you. I have consulted with the developer and then rewrote this sentence.

> This use of the Loki Exporter is a temporary Technology Preview feature, which is planned to be deprecated with the publication of an improved solution in which the Loki Exporter is replaced with the OTLP HTTP Exporter.

Author: @pavolloffay, if it's okay, I'm avoiding mentiong the fact "when the OpenShift LokiStack adds supports for OTLP HTTP" so that we don't commit to that date automatically because it will take some time after the OTLP HTTP support in LokiStack becomes available and our QE and docs become available.
https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/80200#discussion_r1741832033

> This use of the Loki Exporter is a temporary Technology Preview feature, which is planned to be deprecated with the publication of an improved solution in which the Loki Exporter is replaced with the OTLP HTTP Exporter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This use of the Loki Exporter is a temporary Technology Preview feature that is planned to be replaced with the OTLP HTTP Exporter.
```
Will a Loki Exporter have any support at all once OTLP is out? If not, I would just say "replaced" clearly. Deprecation indicates some sort of continued minimal support prior to removal IMHO.

:FeatureName: The Loki Exporter
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

> 

Reviewer: Procedures need to be modularized. You can hardlink or use Additional resources.

Author: Thank you. Done modularizing the procedure. Added the module-specific link after the include statement.

.Prerequisites

* The {OTELOperator} is installed.

> * The {loki-op} is installed. For more information, see xref:../logging/log_storage/installing-log-storage.adoc[Installing LokiStack log storage].

Author: I've reused the assembly id.

> * The {loki-op} is installed. For more information, see xref:../logging/log_storage/installing-log-storage.adoc#installing-log-storage[Installing LokiStack log storage].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The {loki-op} is installed. 
```
For more information, see xref:../logging/log_storage/installing-log-storage.adoc#installing-log-storage[Installing LokiStack log storage].

Can just put this in additional resources after the module.

Author: Yes, I considered putting it there. Considering that this feature is closer to a Developer Preview, it can be handy in the prerequisites.

* A supported LokiStack instance is deployed on the cluster.

.Procedure

. Create a service account for the OpenTelemetry Collector.
+
.Example `ServiceAccount` object
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: otel-collector-deployment
  namespace: openshift-logging
----

. Create a cluster role that grants the Collector's service account the permissions to push logs to the LokiStack application tenant.
+
.Example `ClusterRole` object
[source,yaml]
----

> apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1

Reviewer: Anything customizable here, or is this to be used WSIWYG?

Author: Not as user-replaced values.

        tls:
          ca_file: "/var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/service-ca.crt"
        auth:
          authenticator: bearertokenauth
      debug:
        verbosity: detailed
    service:
      extensions: [bearertokenauth] # <5>
      pipelines:
        logs:
          receivers: [otlp]
          processors: [k8sattributes, transform, resource]
          exporters: [loki] # <6>
        logs/test:
          receivers: [otlp]
          processors: []
          exporters: [debug]
----
<1> Provides the following resource attributes to be used by the web console: `kubernetes_namespace_name`, `kubernetes_pod_name`, `kubernetes_container_name`, and `log_type`. If you specify them as values for this `loki.resource.labels` attribute, then the Loki Exporter processes them as labels.
<2> Configures the format of Loki logs. Supported values are `json`, `logfmt` and `raw`.
<3> Configures which resource attributes are processed as Loki labels.
<4> Points the Loki Exporter to the gateway of the LokiStack `logging-loki` instance and uses the `application` tenant.

> <5> Enables the BearerTokenAuth Extension that is required by the Loki Exporter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<5> Enables the `BearerTokenAuth` extension that is required by the Loki Exporter.
```

Author: Thank you for the suggestion. In this case, it's the actual full name of an extension.
